# Fiddler on the Proof: April 24, 2025 problem

Refer to the problem statement found [here.](https://thefiddler.substack.com/p/can-you-see-between-the-trees)

## Solutions

The solutions to the original problem and extra credit are both found
using the code in the file ForestTrees.py.
The two plots generated by the code are saved in this repository.
TreeGapLocations.png contains the solution to the problem as written.

In the code, I tested cases where the viewer can see trees at integer distances
up to a maximum of 6, 7, 8, ..., 500.
The longest vision distance I included in the plots is 100.
The same general pattern holds true for the longer distances I tested.

The blue dots, corresponding to the angle surrounded by the widest pair of gaps,
are the solution for the original problem.
The orange dots, corresponding to the angle surrounded by the fifth widest pair
of adjacent gaps, are the solution for the extra credit.
TreeGapWidths.png contains the widths of the corresponding pairs of gaps.

For the original problem, the solution is actually identical for every maximum vision distance.
It is the angle from the x-axis at which the tree at (2,1) appears to the viewer.
For the extra credit problem, the solution appears to converge to one of the two trees
that would appear adjacent to the tree located at (2,1) to the viewer.
This tree is located close to the edge of the viewer's vision range,
and gets replaced by new trees near the line y=x/2 as the viewer can see farther.

### Other notes

I originally hypothesized that the angle surrounded by the widest pair of gaps
would be the angle arctan(1/2),
because the two widest gaps not considered lie next to the two closest trees to the origin,
and the angle arctan(1/2) is also the angle to the third-closest visible tree.
This hypothesis turned out to be correct for every maximum vision distance I tested.

I started at a vision distance at 6 because that is the shortest vision distance
for which at least five distinct trees other than the ones at (1,0) and (1,1)
are visible.